# CMake Integration for Visual Studio Code

The [CMake Integration](https://github.com/go2sh/cmake-integration-vscode) extension provides
a first-class integration of the CMake configure and build workflow into Visual Studio Code.
It lets you mange multiple CMake-based projects in one workspace supported by advanced features like
fine control over projects, targets and configurations, project dependencies, workspace targets and more.
Setup your build environment to through the settings editor and launch your configure and build process from
keyboard or the VSCode command palette.

For more information:
 - Go to the [website](https://go2sh.github.io/cmake-integration-vscode/).
 - Checkout the out the [guides](https://go2sh.github.io/cmake-integration-vscode/start/quickstart.html).
 - Advanced information can be found in the [reference](https://go2sh.github.io/cmake-integration-vscode/reference/commands.html).

## Features

The CMake Integration for Visual Studio Code supports:

  * Multiple folders with CMake projects in one workspace (multi-root)
  * Commands for configuration, build and clean 
    (target-, project- and workspace-based)
  * Project, target and configuration selection in the status bar
  * Custom configuration support for selecting toolchain, output directory and more
  * Additional dependency management
  * Custom workspace build targets
  * Diagnostics generated by the compilier
  * Provides Include information to C/C++ Extension for Source and Header Files

## Requirements

CMake version 3.7 or higher must be installed.

**Warning:** This extension is incompatible with other CMake extensions like `CMake Tools`.

## Quick Start

  1. Configure your default Generator in your User Settings (Default is Ninja).
  2. Add your CMake project(s) to the workspace.
  3. Select your project, target and configuration from the status bar.
  4. Hit F7 for building the currently selected target or Shift+F7 for the
     currently selected project (build all).

### Pitfalls

  * Changing the generator of an already generated project requires the CMake
    Client to be restarted and the build directory to be deleted. Simply use the
    command  `Restart CMake Client (Clean)` and select your project.
  * The extension relies on the project name reported by CMake for some 
    advanced operations. Multiple projects with the same name are not supported
    for those.


## Extension Settings

Most settings are documented well through VSCode settings dialog. The most 
important settings are:
 
  * `cmake.default.generator`: The generator to generate the build system. 
    Set this to an apropriate user default. (See Pitfalls)

Options `cmake.build.workspaceTargets` and `cmake.build.targetDependencies`
can be used to configure an andvanced build workflow.
  
  * `cmake.build.workspaceTargets`: A list of targets, that are executed 
    on the `Build workspace` command.
  * `cmake.build.targetDependencies`: A list of dependencies between projects
    and/or targets, that will be resolved before building. 
    (e.g. Dependency between a library project and an application project using it)

In both cases targets are specified by either a project name 
(all targets in the project) or by a project name and a target name.
```
# Project
{ "project": "test" }
# Project and target
{ "project": "test", "target": "app" }
```
Additionally `cmake.build.targetDependencies` object take a `dependencies` array for
specifying dependencies for a project or a target.
```
{
    "project": "test",
    "target": "app",
    "dependencies": [
        { "project": "liba" },
        { "project": "libb", "target": "special"}
    ]
}
```
Both options have a JSON schema in place to guide you through the configuration.

## Known Issues

None.

## Contributing
As this extension is in a preview state, it is neither bug-free nor feature-complete.
Your help is highly appreciated and feel free to contribute to this extension by 
opening a bug report or feature request or contribute directly via pull requests.

## Roadmap

 * CTest support
 * Debug support (provide path to targets)

## Release Notes

See the [Changelog](CHANGELOG.md)
